Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now we're moving into a new section which is phials part two.
And in the section we're going to look at some more advanced topics of working with files.
So this lecture is called analyzing text and we can analyze text files containing large amounts of information
such as you've guessed it books.
And did you know that I couldn't bear that org.
You can download the text files of classic books and this program will use the string method split which
can build a list of words from a string to split method separate a string into parts wherever it finds
a space and stores all the parts of a string in a list.
Let's have a look at how we can do that.
Let's start off with.
Filename equals in quotes.
Pete cliff and if anybody has not read wondering Heights Well I highly recommend that.
And now is the time to get reading and he cliff is one of the main characters from watering heights.
So try it open.
What are we opening.
Well we're opening our file name which is our file.
Cliff has a file object so as to where you file object
contents what you want to do with the contents.
Because what we want to assign the contents file object and then we want to read that contents
now like in a previous lectures except file not found.
So if we got a file not found error
message equals sorry.
The file plus file name we're building in some nice area features here.
Cannot be found
cannot be found.
If we go next print message
else.
Words equals content.
Never going to count the words in our file.
Words that split
the number of words equals Eliane which is lengths that counts the number of words.
Then print
the file
plus filename
plus approximately
proximately plus.
Now we need to convert our number of words to a string so string number words plus words.
OK now let's run this and make sure it works for us.
Define heatless Dotty XTi has approximately one hundred eighteen thousand eight hundred ninety nine
words in it.
OK so a lot of words Dario's That's how many words are in our file.
He claimed that he XTi.
So how were we able to do that.
But let's just have a quick run to a file.
So we started off at a variable filename and we signed up the text he Cliff Dotti x T.
Then we have our try block.
So with open file names are open or variable fun name which is our file.
He clicked that the X day as File object.
Then we create a variable content's equals a file object out read.
So read the entire file object in the contents.
If we cannot find a file we output an error message sorry the file cannot be found otherwise to words.
So then we assign contents that split as we mentioned earlier on the split method separate the string
into parts where ever it finds the space and stores all the parts of a string in a list.
So we have contents that split.
To words the variable words.
Then we have another variable.
The number of words equals the length of words and then we simply print out the file name and a string
number of words.
So a lot coming together put an excellent piece of code an excellent little program.
Thanks for listening.
Do you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me.